# Cryptoimg

## Description

Cryptoimg is based on the idea that a textual password can be easily discovered or guessed due to its simplicity and reduced length, whereas an image contains a highly specific set of information that can be used for encrypting data more securely.

Cryptoimg converts a `.txt` file into binary code, repeats it enough times, and formats it so that the binary text set has the same shape as the image set to be used for encryption. Then, the binary set is modified using the `numpy bitwise_xor()` function along with a new set generated by a pseudorandom number sequence (also formatted based on the original image) that uses the sum of the values of the original image array as a seed, thus creating a sort of cryptographic key. The original image is then modified again using the `bitwise_xor()` function and combined with the previously generated cryptographic key, resulting in a data array (having the shape of the original image) that is saved as a PNG image to avoid information loss.

## Encoding

To encrypt a text file using an image, run the following command:

```
encode.py -i 'cat_lock.jpg' -f 'secret.txt' -s 'encryptedimg'
```

Where:
- `-i` specifies the image to use for encrypting the file.
- `-f` defines the `.txt` text file to be encrypted.
- `-s` specifies the path and name of the encrypted file to be saved (it will automatically be saved as `.png`).

Currently, `encode.py` supports only `.txt` text files as input for encryption. Images that can be used as cryptographic keys can be in `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, and `.png` formats.

## Decoding

To decrypt a file, run the following command:

```
decode.py -e 'encryptedimg.png' -i 'cat_lock.jpg' -s 'decryptedfile'
```

Where:
- `-e` specifies the previously encrypted image.
- `-i` is the image used as the cryptographic key.
- `-s` defines the path and name of the decrypted file to be saved (it will automatically be saved as `.txt`).
